He's already back there. Spring
Hill Board of Mayor and Alderman will come
to order at five forty five PM. Let the
record reflect that all the members are
present except for Alderman Canapari. At
this time, we're gonna adjourn for
executive session.
Get into our voting screen.
Board of mayor, alderman main will
reconvene at six ten from the executive
session. Let the record show that alderman
Canapari is now present.
Mister Eric Droke,
if you could please lead us in a word of
prayer.
Let's
all bow.
Father, I thank you for the opportunity,
lord, to be together again tonight.
I thank you, God, that you've kept us
safe. It's been a dicey,
error few
few days,
and,
I I thank you, Lord, that you've kept us
safe and you brought us back together.
God, I just wanna thank you, Lord, for the
attitude
of service, Lord, that we witnessed over
the last few days.
So many people have volunteered and given
and sacrificed and put themselves in
harm's way, God, to serve their community
through the ice and through the storms,
and I'm just grateful for that. God, I ask
that you would help our hearts
to line up with their attitudes and their
actions
to have a an attitude of how can I help?
And I feel like if we can do that, father,
we will do
what you've called us to do, which is to
bear one another's burdens and to serve
one another. And in that way, god, could
serve you.
God, I I ask that you would just give
blessings tonight,
direct our hearts, and direct our
decisions for your glory. In Jesus' name,
we pray. Amen. Mhmm. Wonder if we could
all stand for the pledge.
I pledge allegiance
to the flag of the United States of
America
and to the republic for which it stands,
one nation
under God, indivisible,
with liberty and justice for all.
Thank you Mr. Drill.
Looking for a motion on the agenda, Vice
Mayor Lindvill. Move to approve the
agenda. Motion to approve.
Second. Second by Alderman Murray. Are
there any edits to the agenda?
Seeing none, those in favor of the agenda,
please say aye. Aye. Agenda's approved
nine to zero.
As far as mayor's comments tonight, I'm
gonna echo a little bit of what Mr. Droke
just said. I'm sure
in acknowledgments,
other people say the same things here as
well. But
obviously police, fire, public works all
worked extremely hard over the past week.
I also wanna recognize the administrative
staff,
the EOC team,
the communications team, and the utility
plant operators.
I've had many, many, many comments
from citizens
commending you all for your work, and
wanna make sure that that's heard and
understood from you all.
Mr. Napier, any comments? No, sir. Any
department heads, any comments?
Acknowledgements
from the board.
Alright, seeing none, is there any citizen
comment this evening?
Alright, seeing none.
Public hearing items, we have none.
Consent items, Ms. Goad, please.
Consider resolution twenty six thirty one
to authorize the purchase of police
vehicles and equipment.
Consider resolution twenty six thirty two
to approve renewal of contract for annual
plumbing services.
Consider resolution twenty six thirty
three to approve renewal of contract for
annual electric service.
Consider resolution twenty six thirty four
to approve renewal of contract for annual
roofing services.
Consider resolution twenty six thirty five
to approve renewal of contract for annual
HVAC
services.
Consider resolution twenty six thirty six
authorizing the purchase and
implementation
of an additional on call phone for Spring
Hill Water to provide separate dedication
of on call phones for water distribution
and sewer collections.
Consider resolution twenty six thirty
seven to amend resolution twenty four two
twenty six to authorize
an additional task order with Thomas and
Hutton for evaluation of a sewer lift
station associated with I sixty five
interchange interceptor project.
Consider resolution twenty six thirty
eight to approve recommendation of
projects for the neighborhood sidewalk
program for fiscal year twenty twenty six
fall.
Consider resolution twenty six thirty nine
to establish performance bond and
establish a maintenance bond for Sanctuary
Bluff, Newport Royal Road.
Consider resolution twenty six forty to
amend resolution twenty five one sixty
five to increase purchase order in the
amount of seven thousand two hundred
dollars for a total authorized amount of
fifteen thousand two hundred dollars.
Consider resolution twenty six forty four
to approve a professional service
agreement with BTA Consulting for pay plan
update
conversion to a step up pay structure.
Thank you Ms. Goad.
Move to approve the consent agenda. Motion
by Vice Mayor Linville. Second. Second by
Alderman Murray. Please vote on the
consent agenda.
Consent agenda is approved nine to zero.
Previous business, there is none. New
business. Item number one, consider
resolution twenty six dash forty one to
adopt a fund balance policy and repeal
prior adopted fund balance policies.
Ms. Holden please.
There have been no changes from
the work session. I will be happy to
answer any questions. Any comments, Vice
Mayor Linville. Mayor, I make a motion to
approve resolution twenty six-forty one.
Motion by Vice Mayor Linville. Second.
Second by Alderman Murray.
One quick comment, we talked about this at
Budget and Finance Advisory Committee
today and
unanimously
suggested to the board to adopt this.
Thank you, Vice Mayor. Any comments or
questions from the rest of the board?
Seeing none, please vote on Resolution two
thousand six hundred forty one.
Item is approved nine to zero. New
business, item number two, consider
resolution twenty six-forty
two authorizing a true up of fund balance
classifications
reimbursement to the general fund from the
Parkland
commitment for Hurt Road Parkland
acquisition.
May I make a motion to approve resolution
twenty six dash forty two. Motion by Vice
Mayor Linville. Second. Second by Alderman
Murray. Miss Holden anything? This is what
we discussed in the work session and then
I followed up with you all an email about
those details. I'll be happy to answer any
questions. Thank you, Holden.
Vice Mayor Linville? Again on this one we
talked about this at BFAQ today and made a
unanimous recommendation to the board to
this resolution. Thank you Vice Mayor
Linville. Any additional comments or
questions from the board?
Please vote on resolution twenty six dash
forty two.
Item is approved nine to zero.
New business, item number three, consider
resolution twenty six dash forty three to
approve funds for phase two Walnut Street
Skate Park.
May I make a
motion, excuse me, to approve resolution
two thousand six hundred forty three to
approve funds for phase two Walnut
Street Skate Park. Motion by Alderman
Murray. Second. Second by Vice Mayor
Linville. Alderman Murray, it's your item.
Yeah, I just wanted to bring back
resolution like I mentioned in the last
meeting.
There was couple of different items on
there, so I wanted to make sure that we
brought back just a single
item
to have before you tonight.
And I just wanted to share that
when
looking at this project,
this is something that we have been
working on. I guess it started ten years
ago.
It gives us an opportunity to finish a
project that could have
great impact on our communities. You saw
some
last meeting who who came out to maybe
speak toward it. And so I'm really just
trying to make sure that it's something we
wanna do, that we
get it completed.
And I also think there's some potential
additional revenue that can be brought in
from
tournaments
and events and things like that. So
just wanted to share that.
Thank you, Alderman Murray. Comments or
questions from the board?
Vice Mayor Linville.
Thank you, mayor.
Think this could be a question for staff.
I was looking at the text of the
resolution.
It
outlines that the nine hundred and fifty
thousand dollars was coming from
undesignated
and unencumbered funds from the general
fund. Is this essentially, is the ask that
it would come from unassigned fund
balance?
With that language, yes. Okay.
Think
with it coming from unassigned fund
balance and even if it was from Parkland,
the Parkland fund or
allocation that the board has made.
We're about to kick off twenty seven
budget cycle. We talked about that at BFAC
today.
For a
request that's being requested from
undesignated fund balance, think that
needs to be evaluated within the scope of
all the other requests that are being made
before the board.
Because we're so close to that process, I
have a hard time getting behind going
ahead and putting that in front of the
other things we'd be considering as well.
So I would be open to a potential deferral
or unfortunately I wouldn't be able to
support this tonight.
Thank you Vice Mayor Linville.
Who is first?
Alderman Hartwell.
Alderman Fuquay.
Thank you mayor.
Alderman Murray we
discussed a couple of different things in
defect this afternoon number one is that
we
are looking out or looking at closing
the
year in a deficit because of our recent
purchase.
So I don't know that the way that this is
written and where the money's coming from
that
it would be wise of this board to take
action with the way that it's written,
to echo Vice Mayor's
comments in regard to the budget season
and then even some requests that I had
made
at the end of BFAC which I'll get into at
roundtable.
I don't wanna vote against this so
probably here in a moment if you do not I
will ask for deferral.
Thank you Alderman Fuqua, Alderman
Hartwell. Thank you. I
wanted to hesitate for a minute because he
and I had been talking about just how the
budgets work in general.
Our last session when we
were just just wanting to pull it from the
current funding that we had for Parks and
Recs or
it was one section that we were gonna pull
it from. But do we I guess my question is,
Rebecca, do we have a fund where we could
allocate
we could pull it from anything else and
say okay well we have this much we can
use. Let's just say we wanted to give
someone a raise.
Where would we get that money from? We
would have to pull it out of a general
fund,
right?
So can we allocate different things in
different ways where we could say, okay,
this is how much we can give you,
this is all we have to work with right now
if we can't pull it from the
funding that we originally were gonna pull
it
So that's a loaded question.
So if
you were to give someone a raise and it
costs two hundred dollars for example,
typically the department can find that
within their budget and move things around
and say, I can do without
this training
to cover for this employee's raise. So
typically, it's by amount. With this
amount that you're looking at, you're not
gonna be able to
squeeze it out of current budgeted items
in the general fund. And I think that's
why the request is for it to come out of
unassigned
fund balance,
if that makes sense, if that helps. Thank
you, Ms. Holden. Mr. Napier to add on to
that, if you're okay with that. Alderman
Hartwell?
Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Alderman. Thanks
for the question.
The only thing that I would add to Ms.
Holden's response would be that it would
be super, super rare
that we would ever recommend using
operational money
to do a capital project.
And vice versa,
it would be even more rare that we would
use one time money or money that we would
otherwise use for capital projects
to balance the general fund budget. So
it's rare that I would ever see the two
intermingle and recommend
to you accordingly.
Alderman Hartwell, the floor is still
yours. Okay, thank you.
This question is for you.
With the current
residents that use
the skate park,
I know that they're very hands on, they
wanted to grow all the above, and we have
a special YouTuber that is there as well,
right?
He also probably if he's that popular, he
probably gets paid
for ads and all that good stuff.
I'm gonna assume that because I went to
research him and
tons of ads popped up. So
my question with that would be if he's
benefiting from
our skate park,
we don't charge him, right? As what as we
would charge any other resident to reserve
the
pavilion or
any of that? Oh, is is is is that at all
to him or to anyone that uses it? Is there
if they he also said that he I'm sorry.
The baby. I wanna just go pick him up.
Where is he? Here.
It's okay.
He's
I'm just reminiscing on his conversation
y'all, sorry.
He said that he taught classes as well.
He's not teaching those classes for free.
So a lot of things that they're doing in
the skate park,
they're benefiting from it financially,
but we're having to
to take the l for it. Not take the l, but
these are things that they're supposed to
be expecting, they haven't gotten it yet,
but they're still pulling at us, but
they're not giving back to us at the same
time, if that makes sense.
So thank you for the question. So to
answer the first part of it that I
understood,
none of our users are charged to use any
of these parks or the amenities within the
parks.
It is a benefit that is provided to the
community for them to use at their
leisure. So even if you were to rent a
shelter for a birthday party or
family gathering, whatever it is, there's
no cost for that. It is a service, a city
service that the city provides to the tax
paying residents of this city.
So there, I'm sure, are lots of people who
do lots of things in the parks that may or
may not benefit them.
If we know about them, if it is someone
asking us permission to do certain things,
we do have requirements and city policies
that we follow
to work with them on that. But even at
that level, let's say
someone was gonna do a soccer clinic for a
week or something like that, we would we
would get some information, some things
that we need, but we still don't charge
for that ability to be able to do that.
That goes for our leagues as well as the
individual user.
Is
there anything else that I did not cover?
Okay. Thank you Alderman Hartwell.
Alderman Jimenez.
Thank you mayor. I just wanna echo what
the rest of the BFAC board members said.
We really need to true this budget up
first to figure out
is there enough money? Are we gonna have
the money to complete some of the projects
that are ahead of this? The last thing I
wanna see, and this is something that we
talked about at BFAC,
we start a project only to
not end it completed.
And
so if we get in a position where we say,
hey, dollars nine hundred and fifty
thousand and we figure out we need money
elsewhere,
we stop. We're four hundred thousand
dollars into it. Now we have project
that's halfway completed that does more
harm than good.
I want the kids to have a place to enjoy
themselves,
but we need to make sure that when we
commit to completing and doing something,
we're capable of committing and completing
it all the way through.
There's a lot of other really big items on
this that
the board has to get done
and these capital improvements that need
to be completed
that we voted on as a board to prioritize.
And so with that being said again,
I want to see this done.
We just have to find a way to do it that
we're not stopping other things that we
agreed to as a board to complete first.
Thank you Alderman Jimenez. Alderman
Davis.
Thank you mayor.
I'm gonna echo
what Alderman Fuquay said. I want to say
yes to this, but
I also wanna support
what we're doing and and make sure that we
do sure up things. But I I would love to
see,
you know, I agree with Alderman Jimenez as
well. You know,
we we need to have this for the children.
We this is part of
Spring Hill living, having nice parks. We
don't wanna put a park together and then
halfway finish it. So I do believe we
probably need to consider putting some
kind of fund together at least in the
future, if not now because we don't have
the funds to do it,
that will help us start to finish projects
especially when it comes to things that
are facilities for
the community to use. So I want to say
yes, but right now I don't feel like that
would be the right thing to do knowing
that we're pulling from somewhere else and
I'm not one hundred percent sure of where
we're pulling from right now. Thank you,
Alderman Davis. Alderman Canapari.
Thanks, Mayor.
also
I
in favor of
bringing this to Spring Hill.
I think the enjoyment
we're we're we did a study a while back
that said that one thing Spring Hill was
missing was
kinda things for the kids to do. And
this looks like a perfect thing. And it
attracts many, many teens and many kids.
So it's something that really needs to be
done.
As I I wanna remind the board that
resolutions can be amended like twenty
three one thirteen can be amended.
Amended because when we drafted it, we
made a mistake in the wording.
We said the purpose was for Parkland
acquisition.
The purpose was really to increase the
enjoyment of
our community, especially the teens.
So if we go back and think about why we
actually wanted to buy the land and why we
set up a fund, a sinking fund to do that,
we would all agree that the purpose behind
one thirteen, twenty three one thirteen
was the enjoyment of the kids,
and that includes modifying what we
already have.
So
my take on it is that we're missing the
boat if we're gonna push this again, kick
this down the can down the road because
it's not gonna make it the next time
either. We'll find something to replace it
with. We have an opportunity and we have a
price.
What we need to do is amend twenty three
one thirteen to include the words and
modifications
to improve
because that was the real purpose of us
looking to buy Parkland.
Okay?
So
I'm taking that as my take on this.
And
and as far as
Alderman Hartwell,
yes,
it's true they make money, and they must
be like a ten percent of the people who
use the park,
a skate ring, the skate park. Ninety
percent of them don't make any money. They
just go to enjoy it, and it's free. So we
can't compare apples and oranges. Yeah.
They make money on it, but they're
entitled to do that.
And according to what they told us, they
have volunteered hours to fix on their own
own accord to put their own time and money
and effort into that. Maybe it's not
enough to nine hundred and fifty thousand,
but it is enough.
They didn't have to do it at all. So
that's where I go. And tonight, I'm voting
yes unless it's deferred.
Vice mayor Linval, I haven't had my turn
yet, so I'm gonna take it before I go back
to you for the second time.
I just want the board to recall, back in
April we said we were gonna put together
a reoccurring CIP process again. We had
really gotten away from that process as a
city where we could sit and plan out our
top capital needs and have a financial
plan that comes with it. So in April we
tasked staff to get all of the department
needs from all the various departments,
pulled together thirty plus projects,
right? We had a special call meeting in
September,
went through all the projects,
went back individually, ranked them, staff
compiled the rankings.
This came in twenty fifth out of twenty
nine.
I have not heard anybody explain why we
are now treating this project separately
from the rest of the twenty nine.
If you put any value in the planning, in
the financial planning of the CIP process,
this doesn't need to be deferred, this
needs to be voted down.
I think it's really offensive that we're
taking a project
that's ranked so low and treating it
separate from the other ones.
We don't have a final financial plan for
our top ten projects,
including projects that are mandated to
get us out of the consent order in a sewer
moratorium.
So the idea that we would take a million
dollars worth of general fund money and
allocate it to something that was ranked
twenty fourth, twenty fourth, twenty
eighth, twenty fifth, twenty third, twenty
second, not ranked at all,
is just financially reckless.
My number one CIP project was outside of
the top ten.
If I brought a resolution next month to to
fund it out of general fund balance,
it should upset every single one of you,
and you should vote it down.
I will not support a deferral on this. I
will support defeating this,
and I will expect everybody to work
collaboratively
so we can plan appropriately, we can
financially plan appropriately,
and we're all gonna accept the collective
group outcomes,
whether they meet our individual needs and
goals or not.
This isn't
deprioritizing
parks in any way. There's five projects
that were park projects that ranked higher
than this,
Including multiple ones in the top ten.
We are investing and committing into
parks.
What I'm not supportive of doing is
ignoring our planning process, ignoring
the staff efforts,
and running flavors of the day.
Vice Mayor Linville, you wanna go.
Alderman Fuquay, do you wanna go?
Anybody else?
Alderman Murray.
Thank you, Mayor. Just real quick
question. I
certainly understand what you're saying
and I want us to be fiscally responsible
in all that we do
and especially in the projects that we
choose.
And I just wanted to give you some
backstory.
It wasn't about prioritization
of the exercise that we
did. It was
with funds in
Parkland. That's what it was designed
to where funds were designed to be pulled
from.
When
we decided to put that money out of this
fund into the general fund was the only
caveat that that was between the two of
them to try to still do a project with
that
money.
So
if if I remember correct and I correct me
if I'm wrong, but we saw a great
opportunity
to
move on Station Hill.
Wasn't, I don't think anywhere.
CSA phase two was a top ten project.
It was a twenty one million dollars
project that we replaced with a six
million dollars project.
So it was a top ten project.
It was not stated that way when we did the
priority skill,
priority
session.
So
I understand. I think that's great. I I I
believe we made the right call.
I was just simply saying that we have some
autonomy
with things that we would like to do.
If something's gonna save us a lot of
money,
I'm I'm all for it because it's the
taxpayers' money.
I'm just simply saying that this is a
project that that did start. Somebody
talked about completing projects. Well, it
started in twenty fifteen.
I
mean,
was gonna cost six hundred and something
six hundred and thirty seven thousand, if
I remember correctly, when we looked at it
in twenty twenty two.
It's now up to nine hundred and fifteen
thousand.
I'm just simply saying
this is a way to go ahead and finish
something that we actually started
in twenty fifteen
and doing it at an amount I understand
it's nine hundred and fifty thousand
dollars. I'm just the reason I brought it
forward is because the next time we look
at it,
should the board say no,
the next time we look at it,
it's gonna be more than that.
So that was my only rationale from it was
if we see, if we have that autonomy, if we
see something that could benefit the city,
be a savings
to the city,
you know, we can do things like that. So
just wanted to provide some clarity as to
the why.
Please vote on resolution twenty six-forty
three.
Item fails, two to seven. Work session
item number one, discussion Southern Route
sewer reserve allocation request.
Mister Allen?
Thank you, mayor.
We have a couple of these on here tonight.
Just wanted to give you an update, and
then I believe somebody representing the
applicant is here to speak as well.
If there's anybody from Southern Roots,
come on ahead and make your way to the
podium while Mr. Allen's talking then.
Our staff has started reviewing this.
We've had a few questions, been going back
and forth with their engineer.
We expect to get that resolved and have a
recommendation
in two weeks at the next BOMA meeting.
If you wanna identify yourself and
add any additional information that you
feel the board needs, then I feel we might
have some questions for y'all. My name is
Hamilton Brooks. I'm with shop
construction.
Live in Thompson Station.
Doctor McKittrick
is the owner of the hopeful future
Southern Roots Endodontics,
and so I've come up here on behalf of her
in the past and just wanted to use this as
an introduction.
We've got doctor McKittrick. We've got our
engineer, Tim Little.
We also have Emma Copeland,
who is from our architecture team,
and then doctor McKittrick's husband and
their three children are here as well.
So Doctor. McKittrick. Yes. My name is
Doctor. Katherine McKittrick. I am the
owner of Southern Roots Endodontics.
I've a member of our community here for
about six years. My home is about seven
minutes from the practice. So really
hoping to
really further integrate our family into
the community
and hoping that we can get a positive
resolution on this hopefully as quickly as
possible as
the project's been in process for quite
some time. Really hoping to open our doors
and be able to serve the community
from our dental standpoint.
Thank you. Anything else from y'all's end?
Comments or questions from the board?
Let me start off with a couple. What are
you
bringing with this project that's
otherwise not available in Spring Hill?
As we look at our sewer capacity, we have
a limited amount of capacity to allocate.
I think this board has
individually and collectively in the past
expressed that we wanna hold onto those
reservations for things that
are unique and add value into the
community.
Obviously,
accessibility
to healthcare is one of those things, but
talk to us about
what it is that would be added value to
the citizens by giving you this
allocation. So as an endodontist,
I specialize in root canals, which if any
of you have ever had one, we're not always
people's favorite.
But there's only three thousand
endodontists in the country as a whole. So
we're able to provide
pain free
root canal procedures for patients that
you know may not otherwise have that
ability. Yes,
general dentists can provide root canal
procedures
which is
very common. However, as an endodontist,
I have an additional two years of training
beyond
dental school in order to provide the
service for patients. So we see difficult
cases. We see advanced treatments.
We do some surgical root canal procedures.
So it's a very specialized niche
group of people
that
can provide the service to our citizens.
So we do already have an endodontist
in town, mean is that practice at
capacity? What is it that makes you think
there's enough patient volume for
it to go around? Where
are you practicing now? Where are you
drawing patients from now? So I was
practicing in Hendersonville,
I am currently practicing
as I'm waiting for my hopeful practice to
open. So I work
Tuesday
through Thursday, and I stay the weekend
in South Carolina. And then I work Monday
through Thursday, and I fly back to Spring
Hill to spend a four day weekend with my
family,
which I have been doing since July. So
I will be bringing patients in.
As I said, I did work I worked in Cool
Springs for a little bit, and then I
worked in Hendersonville.
So,
you know, obviously, Spring Hill is
growing. We all know this. And there's
more general dentists that have come in
primarily my referrals come from general
dentists so you know relationships
with those dentists to get
referrals to the practice.
Comments or questions from the rest of the
board? Alderman Werner.
Thanks for coming today and appreciate
this and your service.
When did you start this process of
attempting to start the business here in
Spring Hill? So I signed a lease in April
of twenty twenty five.
Okay.
And
what drew you to Spring Hill specifically?
My home is here. We're setting down roots
here. My daughter plays softball for
Spring Hill Little League. I coached her
for four seasons.
My husband is a den leader through the Cub
Scouts of America Boy Scout I'm sorry,
Scouting America.
So, I mean, just had roots here. Our
children go to school at Heritage
Elementary, so just really trying to
continue to lay down roots and make Spring
Hill our community.
Very good, thank you. Alderman Fuquay.
Thank you, mayor.
If the lease has been signed since
April, why the hesitation on
business license and executing
the dream and vision? So we've been
working with, I've been working with my
architectural team during that entire
time. It started just with a dental
development company kind of hammering out
floor plan details,
getting the architectural team on board,
and then just kind of working through that
process to have our floor plan and all of
the engineering and stuff to go through.
And then
our permit was submitted September
twenty third I believe.
Very good.
I will take that into consideration.
One of the things that I want you to be
aware of of with the sewer moratorium that
the city is experiencing now,
we have
reservation
capacity which is what you're asking for.
Yes sir. One of my mindsets with this is
we're gonna have a lot of requests and a
lot of denials and to the mayor's
point access to health care is certainly
something that should be considered.
However me
individually have a great deal of concern
whether or not the reservation exists.
Mr. Allen, that's not a comment towards,
in any negative way, towards your team and
your research. However,
the largest bit of comfort room that we
can have matters.
If I give a voting confirmation
to allow you, what prevents me or gives me
any authority.
Or cease to
look at it I'll consider your investments
in.
Really considering.
Reservation or
real capacity
to the sewer system.
Alderman Davis. Thank you mayor.
Thanks for coming by or coming to us for
this and yeah this is gonna be a hard
decision because what comes next is a
great question. If we say yes to you, then
who else is gonna come next?
So as the mayor said, we have another,
how do you say it, endodontics?
Did I say that right? Endodontics, yes.
Endodontics.
Dentist here in the area.
And you said you're working primarily in
South Carolina
right now. You have some people in Cool
Springs who you've worked with, dentists I
presume.
What is your marketing plan? What have you
done right now to secure business in our
area and the surrounding areas that you
have
actively
been doing? Because if we are going to
give this to you, we definitely or I
definitely want it to be a benefit to
our citizens,
right? But also that means you've got to
get out there and make sure everybody
knows about you because
we're giving you the little bit of
capacity that we have.
So what's in your marketing plan? What
have you done? What have you done to
already
reach out? And how many dentists do you
have that are committed to referring you
at this point? So I've maintained a lot of
those relationships
that I had established.
There's some providers with Aspen, some
Heartland, some of those bigger group
corporate dental entities
that are in town.
I've, like I said, kept those contacts,
but we've unfortunately been delayed
a few times. And so it's kind of hard.
They've had to find other providers
in the interim
in order to have their patients have that
care.
And you know when I was practicing in Cool
Springs, yes there's an endodontist here
in Spring Hill,
but ultimately patients are looking for
you know who takes my insurance, who has
excellent reviews.
And the practice that I'm at in South
Carolina right now, I mean, we're getting
stellar five star reviews. People wanna go
to a place where they feel welcome, where
they feel feel cared for, where they're,
you know, it's again, it's a specialty
practice. So we have state of the art
equipment,
and I have not visited the practice here
in town.
But I have been a member of our community.
I have been a member of the endodontic
community. I haven't met this person to
know even, you know,
kind of where they stand in the community.
So Mommy.
I mean, I my
plan is once I have a date to open,
then I can really kind of push forward
with that marketing plan. And, yes, it
includes feet to the pavement, visiting
those offices, talking to those doctors.
I have been practicing for eight years, so
I'm not a new provider.
You know, are looking at how long does it
take to to get the service. Nobody wants
to be in the dental chair for three hours
plus. So I bring a lot of skill, lot of
experience
to that.
But as far as
actively being able to market,
root canals are an emergency based
procedure. People want to be seen today.
They want to be seen tomorrow. They want
to be seen next week. And if I go out now
and say, I'm opening a practice in Spring
Hill in
six months,
they look at me and go, that's nice. You
know, come back in a come back when you're
a month from opening. Come back when when
you can really serve my patients. So
yes, I've maintained those contacts.
But,
you know, nobody's, like, knocking down
the door at the moment because there's no
opening date.
I would like to see when you come back
how you
are different
from the current doctor we have here and
can benefit
our community
more so and what edge you would have
that's different.
That would be worth that sewer capacity.
So one of the things that I am capable of
doing, and again, I don't know for sure,
but I do have IV sedation certification.
So that's something that not a lot of
endodontists do possess.
So that's an additional service that we
can provide in our office that
most I know of one endodontist in
Cookville area that provides that service.
Otherwise there really aren't any. So
that's one addition that we can provide
with our practice.
Thank you Alderman Davis. Vice Mayor
Linville.
Thank you mayor.
Thanks for being here tonight. I'm a
fellow small business owner and so I
understand
the financial risk that it takes to like
go out into business and make financial
outlay. Yes.
So I fully understand like the issue you
find yourself in. Can you just describe
like what is the financial outlay been so
far for anticipating
opening up this space Roughly? What
do you mean? Like how much money that
we've invested? Roughly
forty thousand dollars I have a business
loan but I can't tap into that business
loan until we've signed a few more,
actually get the process going. So yes,
that's been money out of my pocket,
the forty thousand to fifty thousand
dollars about. The other thing about me
working in South Carolina, it's purely out
of necessity. It's not out of desire.
When I left the practice in
Hendersonville,
have a non compete that prevents me from
working
pretty much in the greater Nashville area.
When I was negotiating to get out of that
noncompete,
what that negotiation looked at was a
bubble in Spring Hill. That's about a two
and a half mile radius.
So my current space is in that bubble. So
if this is voted down,
which hopefully isn't,
you know, then I have to go back outside
that radius and that pushes me basically
south. I can't go anywhere, maybe maybe
into Kentucky,
but I don't wanna drive to Kentucky.
I mean, I wanna be seven minutes from my
home. I wanna be home for dinner. I wanna
I
wanna be a softball coach again. I wanna
be able to do those things. So I mean,
you've heard my son in the background. You
know, he's three.
I've been away for six months. It's really
not fun. So it's, again, not not out of
choice. It's strictly out of necessity.
And thankfully, I've had the opportunity
to be able to do that and continue
to pay the bills that come up with the
attorney fees and architectural
fees and all the other things that come
into opening a small business.
Yeah, I can't imagine wanting to fly to
South Carolina from Spring Hill unless
it's absolutely necessary and there's
compelling reason.
So
with the lease that you have in place
right now,
would it be essentially something you're
locked into if this wasn't approved or is
there an out in the lease? I mean there is
an out in the for
not being able to use the space for its
independent. Yeah. Understand the the
financial business risk that you're going
through.
I do appreciate that you're a Spring Hill
citizen who's wanting to invest in the
community. So, I had a wife heavily in my
decisions and thank you for being here.
Thank you, Vice Mayor Linville. Otterman
Jimenez, please. Thank you, mayor.
It's been said over and over. We have this
little bubble of capacity
that we have to be protective of, right?
But you've said a couple things that tells
me even though we have to protect this, if
I'm gonna give it to anybody, you've
you've mentioned some qualities of a
person that I would give it to, such as a
resident here, a person that contributes
to the community, a person that gives
back. Right?
Being rooted within this community, if I'm
gonna give anybody something that I have
that I desire and and I hold near and dear
to me, gonna be someone that also
contributes to the things that I get to do
here. I
don't know if you mentioned softball
because you knew my passion with softball,
but you hit a chord with me. Right? And
I get, listen, that you're going to South
Carolina out of necessity to feed and
provide for your family.
I can't say me myself wants to I can't
approve this on my own. Right? But if I
was to make a determination on who I
thought would be a person that's a good
candidate for what it is that we possess
here,
to me, you rank high on that list.
I'm not as concerned with the competition
because let's face it, I run a mortgage
company. There's tons of competition here.
Should I be put out of business because I
can't have my practice? I just moved to a
different building. My building was
already built, but I just moved to a
different building.
I don't ever wanna find myself in a
position where I'm outed from the
community simply because the practice I
wanna do is no longer approved here.
That being said,
again, I get there's other however you say
this difficult word, and I get that you're
not a person most people wanna see.
But maybe you're the best person for that
position. Maybe the person that's here is
second rate or maybe they're the best. I
don't know.
What I do know is you live here, you
desire to reinvest here, you pay taxes
here, you spend money here, the city is
benefiting by you being here. We're not
benefiting by you being in South Carolina.
All that to say, these are the type of
people I wanna see
be successful in our community.
Thank you Alderman Jimenez. Alderman
Canapari.
Yeah, thanks.
Excuse me. Thanks.
Hello.
This is a question for mister Allen.
The
applicant's
letter, the last paragraph, says that if a
five day patient week is considered, this
would be an average uses of just over
twenty gallons per day, assuming a four
week month. Has anybody on your staff
checked it or agree with it?
That's
one of the things that we're discussing
with them. So
yes, we're checking it. We're gonna
discuss You think it's reasonable?
Well, one of the concerns that we have
generally as we look at not just this
particular one, but just globally with
a variety of different meetings and
requests that are going on is,
generally I always try and operate under
the principle of don't put anything in
place that you can't actually enforce.
And this certainly seems to be
falling
into that realm of discussion internally
with us. And so how do you regulate a four
day work week versus a five day work week
versus averaging these things and looking
at that? So we are
preparing some stuff to send back to their
engineer and Mr. Little and talk a little
bit about
clarifying some statements back so that we
can get this more
on something that's a little more
palatable, right? I have some reservations
about us making a recommendation
to the board based on a possible
four day scenario versus a five day
scenario. We just need to know what the
scenario is that we're planning and
projecting for
and make sure that we've got enough there
to cover it.
So we
will get, that's something that we need to
get worked out before we come back with a
formal recommendation
to you guys. But if
I'm mistaken, correct me, but this would
be true for any applicant that runs a
business.
There's no way of enforcing if they four
days, five days, six days, or seven days.
You look at those hours that are on the
door that says we're open from nine to
five.
Which is why in the legal framework that
we established in the moratorium,
we required actual flow monitoring to go
along with So
there is
trust but verify principle in place
legally.
So we
do plan to put a meter on these.
It's very challenging in this situation,
John. I mean, you're talking about a multi
story, multi tenant building with one
connection.
So one of the conversations we have to go
back and check on is we need to look at
master meeting on water versus potential
sub metering
and we're likely gonna have to put
something in place with them where we're
gonna have to measure
potential sub meters on sub spaces
to be able to measure out what's already
there and already been allocated in the
system versus the new use being added onto
to measure the difference.
We've got a number of folks on my staff
looking at the specifics on that that
we're trying to work through. Okay, so
again, this
unique.
This situation's gonna come up again.
And from some of the comments I heard from
the board,
I'm wondering
why we're even even entertaining
any requests
because it sounds like between not giving
up any of our reserve and not being able
to account for what's being
monitored
or lack of monitoring,
why are we even entertaining?
Why why don't we just stick to the
moratorium and say nobody has an
application in?
Because we're here's a here's a health
provider that was saying, hey. Let's take
a look at this. There's only one other
provider in Spring Hill. I guess the
question I have is we're asking the wrong
doctor
how busy she's gonna become. We should be
asking the other doctor how busy
they are or he or she is,
and maybe googling them and finding out
some of the comments
that
they have for their practice before we
start hammering on this this applicant
who seems to be a resident and a a a
citizen and giving back to the community,
her husband and her family.
So
I guess I'm confused.
Either we're gonna either we're gonna
entertain these and decide whether
an applicant is
can get a a dispensation
or or not.
If we're if we're gonna talk about, well,
you know, we got this capacity. We gotta
hang on to it.
Well,
we have criteria set up, I thought.
And one of them is health care. So
I don't see why we're questioning how many
of these we have. The city's growing
evidently large enough to get TriStar,
another hospital.
I know people perk perk up when the word
TriStar comes up. But hey.
You know? So if we're big enough for that
and you're right.
You're right, doctor. Dentists are I mean,
they're like they're like pumpkin seeds.
They're growing
every place you look is another dental
office.
So these people have to refer to an at on
the dentist
somewhere.
And so
you
got my vote.
Vice Mayor Linville.
I'm sorry, Alderman Hartwell, have you
gone?
Alderman Hartwell. Thank
you, mayor. This question is for Dara, Ms.
Sanders. And
again, I'm business owner, just playing
devil's advocate, asking this question. If
she were to find a location that was a
previous doctor's office,
would there
be any question at this point?
The
path forward would
definitely
have fewer hurdles, I'll say So
ordinance two thousand five hundred and
twenty nine was written to say that
development services, particularly the
Coats Division,
may issue a tenant improvement building
permit
as long as we are able to confirm that the
proposed use, the sewer demand associated
with the proposed use,
is equal to or less than the previous use.
In this case, there is no previous use to
the space because there was no previous
tenant. And so that's where this hurdle
has occurred for this particular
tenant space.
So if we were to or if you, doc were to
find a temporary
spot until our moratorium is all laid out
and then go back to your current builder
and say, hey, we're ready to go. If it's
still available, we'd love to make this
our our home. Mhmm. And you have time to
build your business at that at that time
too. That's always an option.
Alderman Canterbury,
when we, this is for you, sir, when things
will continue to come to us, we can't
ignore it if someone is putting it on the
agenda for us to talk about it.
We we wanna give our citizens
the time
to express how they feel. Right? So
I'm thankful that you came to us and and
told us she she's just one of many that
are brave enough to come up here and say
in what what she feels and what she wants.
We're gonna have to turn down some.
We we're not gonna put them in place of
others, you know, you're number one,
you're better than the other. Obviously,
we have to keep it black and white and
say,
this is where we are, this is what this is
what our CIP has said we're gonna do, and
we have to follow it. If we're all in the
same on the same path and and looking the
same way, then that's how we have to do
it. But
you can always
get something temporary. That's what I do.
Thank you, Alderman Hartwell.
If you care to respond, go ahead. Well,
not only am I, you know, supportive as her
husband, but I will be the practice
manager when the when the office opens.
And I think something that's getting
downplayed a little bit is that we have
one office here in Spring Hill. I think
you're speaking about one that's in North
Spring Hill. It's near Thompson Station.
So, again, it's mostly
an emergency based business. It's not like
a standard general dentist who sees
a large amount of people during a day.
They see
endodontists see between five,
ten people a day max. And if they have
some extra
space, they fit in those emergency
patients. So anybody in Spring Hill who
has an emergency,
it's
a terrible thing, and you want it done
today. Well, if that one in Spring Hill is
full up, then the next one is north, and
then just keeps going north and north and
north. So when you get up into Brentwood
and Nashville, you have many choices.
Here in Spring Hill, we don't. It's one,
and then it's then you may have a forty
five minute drive.
Again, you're in pain. You're you wanna
you wanna be out of it as soon as
possible. Now in terms of being able to do
a temporary thing,
we're talking about
buying
dental chairs,
having people come in structurally,
make sure the building can handle
microscopes.
All that's a huge expense, and to move it
is not
not something somebody would think about
on a whim. You know, that would be a
permanent change to either upgrade your
office and or move,
not necessarily just
wanting a new building or to upgrade. It
would be it would be a massive undertaking
to to switch once
you were to set
that second office.
Sorry, if I may.
Our company does fifteen plus dental
practices a year from a construction
standpoint along with many other market
segments.
But because of the timeline that I've been
doing that I've become very ingrained in
the dental community everything from
dental specific CPAs,
financial advisors, architects,
and healthcare commercial real estate
focused companies.
There are very, very few if any
former dental practices that are just
waiting for a dentist to come in and take
that over. Those things are snatched up
immediately
because of the advantages that they offer.
The med gas is roughed in, the plumbing is
roughed in, slight modifications for the
specific equipment.
But from a temporary solution
that's that's probably next to zero of
that space being there that is available
to receive
equipment.
Then in conjunction with the cost that
that would require to set up a temporary
practice
of which is a landlord even going to take
a short term lease on a dental space.
So what I've seen in the market is
dental practices aren't just sitting
there, and if they are, they're snatched
up immediately,
which makes a temporary solution very,
very hard to solve.
Thank you. For what it's worth, I used to
work for a national pediatric
DSO and you're
correct.
You build dental spaces from the ground up
or you get a TI improvement. You don't
walk into one.
Alderman Linville, excuse me, Vice Mayor
Linville. Thank you, Mayor.
Mr. Carter, question for you. This is the
first one of these we've considered and so
is there anything that the board should be
aware of as far as like our standard of
review and how an approval might impact
later judgments that we might pass?
I think as a legislative body of the city
judgment
about how you want to use your
reservation, which
I understand is what a hundred what
exactly
is the resolution of resolution resolution
the of the of
So I think you have plenty of discretion
how to utilize that.
Okay, thank you.
Alderman Davis.
Thank you mayor. I just want to reiterate,
I know I seem too hard on that because
sometimes I come across with the
marketing, but I too am a small business
owner, and I did have the challenge of
trying to find a place. And and mine's not
as intricate as as yours. I just need
desks.
And I do know that there's a challenge
trying to find a place in Spring Hill.
And I do favor the fact that
you're a healthcare
provider and you're
a person that's contributing to our
community. And there is only one other
doctor that does this in our area, and we
are growing. So I am going to take all
that into consideration, because that does
mean a lot to me.
So I just wanted you to have that one tip.
Thank you Alderman Davis.
Alderman Jimenez.
Thank you mayor. I wanna toss this out for
us to take under consideration. I think
this is the most overlooked part. You
signed a lease prior to the moratorium
taking place. Yes, sir. You spent forty
plus thousand dollars on a vision.
This morning, my daughter cleaned her room
with the intent, if I clean my room, I get
to go outside. Right?
She cleaned it. If we said no, we would've
shattered every vision, everything we
taught her that is right.
That to me is the most important thing
when we take into consideration
of where we're gonna direct this.
This is a vision her and her family had.
Oh, was that me?
Oh, this one's fun. I thought I heard
feedback. Sorry. This was a vision her and
her family had prior to
us running into a wall that we can't move.
We have a way to solve a problem and
create a vision
that comes to reality.
When we look at considerations,
we look at the fact that this family spent
this money, spent this time,
took this vision, and sat around their
dining room table talking about their
future.
By the way, that's not gonna move quickly.
It's not like they're selling mattresses.
Right? They're not going in and saying,
load them up. Up. It failed. Take them
out.
To to mayor Matt's point or mayor Fitters
point, it takes a lot to build this. That
tells me there's commitment here.
We have to look at the fact
these individuals
did this prior to the moratorium taking
place.
They invested money prior to this taking
place. This building was constructed
prior to this taking place even though it
wasn't built out. We're impacting more
than just her income we're impacting the
landlords income or impact the management
company's income.
Are we gonna sit which I know we can't
fill every building here in spring hill
but are we gonna sit with an empty
building and say sorry landlord.
No money for you. The businesses that
wanna move in there, they're just not good
enough, or are we gonna take action
and honor some of the things that we
should as individuals and say, hey, this
family had a vision,
and they check all the boxes, whatever
those boxes may be. Let's help make this a
reality. So that's my stance is is very
clear on where my direction of this is
gonna be. Thank you, Alderman Jimenez.
Alderman Murray. Thank you, mayor. I
think Alderman Jimenez summed that up very
well.
I appreciate
the fact that you live here in Spring
Hill. Appreciate that you're heavily
involved in
softball. I have a,
unfortunately, an eight year old who's
gonna be trying out in a week or two,
And
I'll just leave it at that. But
I appreciate
your commitment to Spring Hill,
and certainly that's something I consider.
It was just shared that this all started
prior to the moratorium.
And I'm sure for a number of reasons,
it's still going on. So I just want you to
know for me, I take that into
consideration.
I certainly appreciate your commitment to
Spring Hill.
And
I believe it's okay to have multiple
I
I won't I won't pronounce it right.
Whatever you do, doc.
won't I won't pronounce it right. Whatever
you do, doc,
I think it's more it's good that you
there'd be more and more of you.
But most importantly, you're you're one of
us.
You live here. You're raising your family
here.
And
real quick, just a question, Dan.
On the chart, the two forty gallons per
day, and then I see that full
build out goes to like four forty. So
technically,
obviously that moves from ten to twenty. I
mean that moves in
accordance with as the business grows is
what I'm understanding.
And excuse me,
is that how we're looking at this
projected calculation
for gallons per day?
We'll work with the applicant to project
for their full build out. That way they
can,
if the board chooses to do it,
they can have their full business plan
accounted for. You you gotta be careful.
She's already got a loan in place. So,
know, I would be very leery of us saying
yes, but this much versus that. You only
get to do this many seats versus that
seats. We
need to get apples to apples on the
allocation and make sure we're measuring
it right and then give them clarity so
that they can go execute and do what they
need to do. Yeah, completely agree. I just
had a question about it. Just didn't know
how that was kind of set up.
But thank you for what you do.
Thank you, Alderman Murray. If I may. Yes,
ma'am. Go ahead. I would like to emphasize
part of the reason that mister Allen and
development services reached out to us was
we submitted for building permit prior to
the sewer moratorium going into place.
And I'm sure you've heard that plenty.
I'm just trying to make sure she's getting
everything accounted for.
And the second point is
you ask what's different about doctor
McKittrick.
When I had to share with her that her
building had to be stopped and would not
be reviewed by codes,
she thanked me
for my hard work and
for pushing to try and get this taken care
of. That is a compassion that does not
come often,
and I think it speaks to how she will
treat her patients and your citizens.
Thank you. Any other
Alderman Fuqua.
Sorry. When was the original application
made? September twenty third.
And it was delayed?
No,
my understanding with most city submittals
and building reviews, it takes
approximately a month for the first review
before we receive any initial comments.
And done, Ms. Sanders? Alderman Fuquay,
yes. So
the reason,
so
they made their application
for the tenant improvement building permit
the week before
the board of mayor and aldermen passed
the resolution temporarily suspending the
issuance of permits. So they were caught
up in that temporary pause while the city
assessed our sewer sewer demand, sewer
commitments, and sewer capacity
availability.
During
the pause,
applicants were given
the
option of
either withdrawing,
pausing,
or allowing the
review to continue
at their own risk.
My understanding based on an update from
my staff recently
was that the
review has been completed.
I take that back. The review has been
completed,
however, there were additional
changes or improvements that needed to be
made based on building code or fire codes
requirement for ingress and egress.
Yes. We are making coordination efforts
with the other tenants to alleviate any
egress issues.
All
right, thank you.
Anything
in closing from y'all's end?
I have something to say. So
I I guess this would be the time to just
put everything out on the table. I don't
we've been discussing this. If if this
doesn't go through, we may not be able to
stay in Tennessee.
K. I won't be able to be a softball,
Spring Hill,
girls softball coach, and I won't be able
to be a Weeblow den leader here in,
Pac twenty five here in Thompson Station.
So, I mean, not only will our family be
affected, but, I mean, the community will
be affected.
And I
don't know about the other applicants
because, obviously, we're talking about
this a lot that there will be other needs
for this stuff. But I don't know
their specifics and and if their family
will be so integral and tied into this
decision. Because when you leave
a dental office and you have that
noncompete,
the thought is is that you're leaving to
either go someplace else
because they don't wanna to compete with
you
here in the area. But down here in Spring
Hill, I mean, if we don't get in, somebody
else and another, and then probably a
fourth endodontist will be here pretty
soon just because the the city is growing
so fast. So
we wanna be here first or second,
and we wanna be able to provide the the
best
that doctor McKittrick can do because
she's great.
But
not only will the city not get her
expertise, but they may lose the
McKittrick family.
You for coming tonight and making
your case. We appreciate it.
I believe mister Allen will have a
resolution of some kind at the voting
session in two weeks. Is that fair to say?
Contingent upon
technical information being exchanged?
My staff's been directed to help these
people with the intent of making a
recommendation for approval in two weeks.
Great.
Well thank you. I will tell you your three
year old is roughly one thousand percent
better behaved than mine would have been
tonight.
Well, thank you. You are doing something
right.
Thank you all very much. Thank you all.
I'm
gonna go ahead and skip to number four so
we can stay on sewer reserve allocation
request and go to twelve Stone Health
Partners.
I do believe we have a representative from
twelve Stone as well.
Mr. Allen, I know there's less information
from staff available on this, but if you
have anything to update the board while
she's coming forward.
It's essentially the same update. We've
been talking with them, we're working
through it, and
hopefully here in a couple weeks we'll
have a final recommendation for you guys.
Ma'am, you can remind us who you are
again, then
again, kind of answer some of the same
questions that you heard. What does twelve
Stone do? What's
the value add to the community? Sure.
My name's Cindy Nix and I represent
twelve Stone Health Partners.
We exist in the community. We're right
here on Steven P. Jokic. We've been there
for five years.
We provide infusion services.
Last year, we saw three thousand patients
in this community who have chronic and
complex
conditions, everything from MS to
diabetes
to
Crohn's.
There's just
all kinds of conditions that we see. Our
patients can be infused anywhere from an
hour to six hours.
And so
I had submitted
to Tim here some information,
and I thought we had covered everything
because our patients kind of it
we may see eleven patients one day. We may
see five the next. It's all determined on
our scheduling and based on the length of
infusions.
And so, anyway,
we are just moving our lease expired, and
last it expires at the end of June. But I
started last July
working on a new lease, and we got it
signed in August at the end of August.
And so we started moving forward with our
drawings and everything.
Our lease was up here, and
due to our neighbors, we couldn't control
what was next door to us. It was a
restaurant and a meat market, and we have
all kinds of issues with that being a
health care company being next door. So we
found this location,
and we started our drawings and everything
and turned our permit in in November. And
I didn't find out till December, like mid
December, that it wasn't going forward. I
wasn't given a notice that said,
you know, I had a choice of of stopping
the process, but, you know, we were still
moving forward, I think the permit is in,
and so then we've been answering.
I hired Tim to come in and answer the
questions.
And so that's where we are today.
So can I ask a couple of questions? You
You said you have three thousand patients
or so across the street annually. What did
you do the year before?
I would have to have that. I'm just
generally asking, I mean is the business
growing where we would expect sewer demand
to grow year over year? Or is
three thousand fairly mature for a I
think that's mature for us.
In this new clinic, the reason that we're
moving again is because our lease is up.
We're not giving a bigger footprint. We
only have two So you're not adding chairs
or infusion rooms or PK rooms or anything
like that? We still have two restrooms and
then we have a sink in our bedroom and a
sink in our break room. So we're not
adding to our footprint at all. We're just
going from one to the other.
And of the three thousand patients, I
assume those are unique patients and not
patient visits.
Unique patients. Yeah, so of the three
thousand
patients, I mean how many are That's how
many came in instead of six. Any idea how
many were Treatments.
Treatments, Yes. Any idea how many were
Spring Hill residents and
what are the alternatives for them if we
force them to go somewhere else?
I'm not sure on that. I don't know who our
competitor is in this market. I mean we
have some in Murfreesboro,
but we're located in,
they would have to go somewhere else if
they stayed with us, which is maybe who
their prescriber would give. They would go
to
Mount Juliet or Bellevue
or Skyline.
Those would be their closest alternatives
and we're talking about
people who would be treated potentially
multiple times a week. Right. Well maybe
not, maybe once a week but the problem is
we have a lot of people that have mobility
issues.
And so getting places, getting other
places, it can be difficult for them. And
sometimes they have to come through
services who bring them to locations.
Thank you. Questions for Ms. Nix?
Vice mayor Go ahead.
I was gonna try to speak just a little
bit. I know with some of the comparisons
in the previous one, as
well as this one, I tried to give you a
compare for this facility of what has been
used, measured, projected,
just to give you as a comparator for the
Appendix C that developmental services
saying, okay, here's what our baseline for
establishing
allowance is. That was the whole purpose
of giving you additional information.
For example, I didn't miss Cindy's case.
To go through appendix c, just straight up
with the number of patients, doctors,
and everything, it's three just shy of
three hundred fifty gallons a day.
Their measured practice
for a similar
facility, which you can see the numbers
there, would be two twenty five, but
they're only actually using about a
hundred gallons a day.
As a engineer,
I know this moratorium stuff has come in
late for both practices.
As the outsider,
I've got an existing office building
permitted as an office building. It was
allotted something when it was built for a
use
without changing the use of the facility,
which is an office building for either
tenant.
Know y'all are working through that and
everybody y'all are kind of as new to it
as I am almost. Just y'all got a few
rounds of this on it.
I don't see it where it's adding burden to
what was already allocated with the
original Shell building.
But, anyway, I have tried to provide the
numbers based
on the appendix c as described with mister
Will, his let me start with mister Allen,
and I spoke with Mr. Will last week with
their part also. He's going to say they
were going to Appendix C for any
allocations.
And so we should be well below anything
they would have there with either practice
if you look at the two things. So that's
where I just wanted to weigh in and try to
clarify, because I know
Alderman
mentioned
earlier about some of the altered numbers.
That's what I was doing, just trying to
give you as much comparative information
as I could. If it's a four day work week
as many medical facilities are, or a five
day week, here's what these would
work out to based on the measured
comparator.
And we're five days
a week, so we don't stray from it, we
don't change it. Thank you. Vice Mayor
Linville.
Thank you, Mayor.
I know that it just happens to be that
basically the first two requests that we
got were from a Spring Hill citizen and a
Spring Hill local business.
There will be ones in the future where
that is not the case.
But I think as the board's making
consideration,
they should put a lot of weight into the
fact that they've been here present in the
community, than serving citizens here in
Spring Hill. And so as we're thinking
about what kinds of projects do we want to
allocate any sort of tenant improvements
for,
I think that should weigh heavily.
Thank you Vice Mayor Linville. Alderman
Fuqua.
Thank you Mayor.
Mr. Little,
moving forward,
I don't see anything
attached to
this as the other
one. Would you stamp a letter similar to
the previous one on
I have sent one for miss Nix. Is that what
you're asking? Okay. So so staff
staff has it. They could provide it to us
when we look at a resolution. They have
that with a thing compared to with the
appendix c much as I referenced there.
That that that's perfect. That's one of
the things that I've been looking for.
In line with this, I mean,
you have a business owner here that exists
within the city. They're not looking for
an expanse.
We're not talking about a sewer allocation
necessarily.
Is the square footage increasing? Is there
a new toilet, a new sink?
Is something interchanging differently
between
the location that they're currently in and
where they're going?
The location that they're proposing to go
is actually next to the Southern Roots
tenant space.
So it is in a tenant space that has not
had a previous
tenant.
And so therefore,
are their sewer demand would be a new
demand.
And then the vacate the space that they
are vacating
would then be eligible for
someone to move in with sewer demand of
equal or less than
Okay. The pre so so that's we're not we're
not taking this sewer demand and moving it
over there. We're taking this business,
moving it over there, resulting in new
sewer demand, meanwhile someone is
eligible to slide in
and
impact the system similarly
to this business.
Perhaps I missed
that. I thought once the vacancy was
pulled,
that was no longer eligible.
I misunderstood that. Next request is if
that's the case with you all's office,
mean that should be administratively and
not seen by us.
Makes sense, thank you. Alderman
if you could, the one caveat to that is
that they have
attempted to provide us some data that
might show a previous tenant use in that
space and that's part of what we're taking
into considering in in our evaluation of
it. I guess what I gave you was like a
comparison facility.
Not necessarily one that was there but I
guess to go back to what miss Dara had
mentioned,
it's not a new service
in my mind. You've got an existing
building. It was allocated for something,
so it's not a new allocation.
So, I guess when I do it. Sir, prior to
the sewer moratorium, we did not make
individual
allocations to buildings or development.
There was a burden already considered for
the facility with infrastructure.
Correct, and then When you build a
building
And then with the consent order and the
moratorium, the rules change. So
that,
it's
a snapshot of actual versus projected,
right? So when the moratorium goes into a
place, it's about what's actually active
and what's actually contributing out of
the building
versus new usage on top of that within
those unfinished I wanted to get my mind
around to help talk better with everybody.
Which is why
it's very challenging because what part of
what piece do we take into account and how
do we measure and account that? So that's
those are the things that we're working
through. And because I know I get as a
engineer
representing developers owners,
if you've got an existing building, you're
not taking
a change of use,
a shell building,
you'll never think of it as this is not
covered
already
in the infrastructure growth plan versus
I'm trying to build something out of
ground up. At the moment in time, the
moratorium was acting, it's not producing
When they were negotiating leases Yeah,
was all potential. We
can make it real simple.
At the time of the moratorium,
were there people in there using the
restroom or not? If they weren't using the
restroom, they're not in.
If they were, then maybe we can have a
conversation.
Floor is still yours, Alderman Fuqua.
My
same comments to the
previous
request
remains.
To
Vice Mayor Linville's
point,
I do take a great deal of consideration in
regards to
Spring
Hill, the business existing,
family that's trying to
grow.
It does remain the same that it's
going to be a burden
on the system.
I should reiterate it.
That reserve is something that we're gonna
have to be
very hesitant to allocate.
I will certainly consider documentation.
I can't give a definite yes or no.
Thank you Alderman Fuqua. Alderman
Jimenez.
Thank you mayor.
I know this is so simple and I know you
guys have thought about this way before
me. Can we not just take their water bill
and say, hey, over the past twelve months
they've used x gallons. This is the
average usage that we we're looking. I'm
assuming we're doing that, right? Well, we
don't. I went to the
lady who manages the building and it's not
separately. It's meter separate. Okay. So
that's why. That's why. That's the first
thing I did was to go get the
I had to go find a
comparable comparator facility.
See, that's why that was so easy that
there's no way I came up with that for the
first time. The next question is this, I
know you mentioned
many different illnesses that are covered
by your
business.
How many of those, if you were to guess
just off the hip, have mobility issues
that if we said, hey, no more, you got to
go to Mount Juliet, maybe they couldn't
drive there, They had to rely on a ride to
get there versus
people that just drive up, jump out,
run-in, get their service, and run back
out.
I could get that number for you. I would
be interested. Yeah. It's I don't think we
have a whole lot of people who hop out
and, you know, go in. These Right. Most
people who come there are pretty ill. And
it's chronic and ongoing. It's not like
it's ever gonna be better. It's just to
maintain
their life, you know, and to keep
keep them alive and so. And that's not the
that's not the the golden ticker, right?
That's not the hey, I got this. It's yes.
You know? Yeah. Yeah. But what I'm saying
is we're also talking about the
displacement of our citizens that live
here in the city Spring Hill and saying,
hey, sorry about your your service that
went away.
So,
that's a that's a metric. You know, I know
we have the engineering side of things
which is great. The engineering only tells
a little bit of the story. Right. The
challenge is, as we progress through what
it is we're progressing through, we're
gonna get more sharp on the things we
require or demand in order to make a
decision.
The other side of this is,
it was mentioned earlier, we can't say yes
to everybody, right? But when you're
talking about the comfort of the citizens,
the medical provisions, things like that,
I think there's more consideration than if
you came to us and said, hey, want to boil
fifty extra hot dogs a day and we have a
hot dog saying, here's what we're going to
do.
And I get the part that we're we're
opening a new space and someone's gonna
take that space, which now we have to look
at twofold.
How much are they gonna take there? How
much are we gonna lose over here?
But having those metrics, and maybe this
goes for people in the future that are
looking to apply for the position you are,
is how many people do we serve here? What
types of people?
And what types of additional services are
we gonna provide to help
the community? Because that's what I'm
interested in. How are we gonna better the
community with what little we have?
Because we will run out, and
we run out, I need a speech person,
obviously. I guess, I'm not trying to be
disrespectful. I'm just trying to
understand. We've been here five years
serving this community. Right. Helping
Pete, helping these patients. Yeah. Who
come right over here.
You know, and I'm gonna get somebody after
you that's been here ten years. Then
someone after that has been here fifteen.
That is a consideration, don't get me
wrong. And again, I'm not saying no by any
sense of the means. What I'm saying is
show me how many.
We can agree. Listen, if if your practice
wasn't doing well, you'd have pulled out.
You wouldn't be moving. The other side of
it is we
have to consider that and understand how
does this benefit the community. At the
end of the day, I have to look these other
citizens in the eyes, maybe the person
that's been doing it for two years,
that their business started as a
little office inside an office that now
expanded, and maybe what they provide is
what the community really, really needs.
These are all just consideration
factors, and I believe that in the future
when people come with these, it's like
you're preparing for court. You don't show
up for a speeding ticket saying, hey, I'm
here. Where you speed? I don't know. You
show up with some evidence. And I'm just
asking to expand that evidence. So when I
make a decision and I face a citizen in
the street that we say no to, I can say,
we said yes to this because of this, not
because on that day, I felt generous and
gave him some sewer capacity, right?
Because that's not the answer here. So,
that's all I have. And I will say,
our specialty is having private suites.
You don't go sit in an open area like you
would at a hospital.
We provide a service to where a person can
go into a private suite. They have a
recliner
that can bring a loved one or somebody to
attend with them. Is a loveseater chair
there because they're there for hours. We
provide them with snacks, a TV with remote
so they can have a private time because
it's all some some of these are really
long. Yeah. And so anyway, we provide a
service so they don't have to go on a
hospital campus and be in a open
seating Comfort for people that desire
you. Exactly. And listen, I'm with you.
And I'm I'm by no means saying no. I'm not
saying yes. What I'm saying is give
me something to wear when I face these
citizens and they say, why this one? I can
say, it's right here. We got three
thousand people in this city of Spring
Hill that need their services. Right?
Versus,
I'm gonna use a mattress store. We hear
about it all the time on Facebook. Another
mattress store, another Mexican
restaurant, right? Yeah. Just give me
something to where when I make a
determination, I base it off factual
information
that I can tell my constituents that I
made this decision because of this and I
stand on this rock because I believe in
it. Sure. That's all I'm asking. Ms. Nix,
if you're able to pull like patient zip
codes of
those three thousand care opportunities, I
would think that's relatively I don't do
three seventy four. That's not disclosing
any PHI or anything. And
if we see thirty seven thousand one
hundred seventy four and thirty seven
thousand one hundred seventy nine, a whole
bunch, I mean we'll know that
it's Spring Hill people being directly
impacted.
Alderman Davis.
Thank you mayor. I'm gonna echo
what Alderman Jimenez and Mayor Fitter are
saying. I want some more facts on that.
I'd also like to see
who your competition is from you guys and
how you're different from the competition.
You gave us just a little nugget, hey,
they have their own
place here. I wanna know that so I
understand,
hey, this is a different thing. This is,
you know.
And this is a question, my next question,
you may not have the answer to,
But do you happen to know who will be
going into that space? Mm-mm. And the only
reason I ask that is because if we're
gonna allocate sewer capacity to you,
maybe the person going into that space is
gonna need less sewer capacity, and that
could be an argument. I don't know,
but that's why I was asking that question.
Well it would have to be less or we'd be
right back here having that conversation
with them.
Something else? Ms. Nix, anything else
from your end? No, just who would submit
that information to you? I'll get my
Ms. Sanders and Mr. Allen,
who should be the recipient of the
information?
So far we've been asking that
the additional information be submitted to
both Mr. Allen and myself.
There you go.
Alright, thank you so much. Thank you,
we'll see you in two weeks.
Work session item discussion number three,
discussion on the reservoir raw water
transmission line via TVA
easement.
Mr. Brasfield,
I think this is your first time in front
of us too, so
good luck.
Will comes to us from Thomas and Hutton.
He's been with us for a few months now and
he's doing a great job of getting the
Spartan team organized.
Good evening board, mister mayor. Thank
you.
Perhaps it may show up.
There we go.
So tonight, I'm here to
present this exhibit
to
show the illustration of the existing TVA
alignment,
the right of way that's behind the water
treatment plant,
and the proposal of the new raw water
transmission line.
This we're hoping to install within the
easement up to the reservoir.
So in this exhibit, the blue line from the
bottom coming in is the existing raw water
line going into the water treatment plant.
The yellow line, the red, and the upper
yellow is the proposed
line coming in to the reservoir at the
top. The red line is the actual TVA
existing TVA easement with overhead power
lines, and we're looking to install the
raw water line just on the outside of
that.
After reviewing reviewing multiple routing
options, the staff believes that utilizing
this TVA easement
provides the most efficient and practical
approach for construction.
This line minimizes impacts to the
surrounding properties and offers a direct
path to the reservoir.
And we are requesting the board's approval
tonight to proceed with further
coordination and design efforts based on
this proposed approach.
Thank you, Mr. Brassfield's here looking
for head nods tonight.
Let me just ask,
to go from the reservoir back to the water
treatment plan, would we just run it in
reverse?
Yes, There'd be multiple lines laying
parallel to each other. And from
wastewater reclamation plant up to the
reservoir, are we still talking about
going up by the creek?
Yes.
Vice Mayor Linville?
Thank you, Mayor.
I'm gonna ask really probably an
elementary question, but
the TVI easement is for electrical
infrastructure. Is there any issue with
running water lines through something
that's built for electrical
infrastructure?
Their requirements have
to stay away from structures within twenty
five foot. So our proposal will be right
on the very edge of the right of way.
Okay. And we haven't went out and pulled a
tape measure, but it's significant
distance away. So we would actually be
have to
procure a right of way easement from the
community, but we're not encumbering any
more property.
We're gonna be within that property that's
already
designated as an easement,
just go underground.
Very good.
We this is taken right out of the playbook
from the Cumberland Pipeline project.
These guys recognize that, hey, we got an
opportunity.
We've been having some conversations.
There's concern about making sure that we
have enough separation and trying to run
all that just through to the north, just
through those Meadowbrook open spaces.
Could get a little bit challenging with
the size of the lines we're actually
talking about.
Guys brought it to me, that's a great
idea.
Seems like a path of least resistance to
the treatment plan to me, makes a lot of
sense.
Thank you Vice Mayor Alderman Werner.
Thank you Mayor. The
question I have and the question I'm gonna
get because I'm already getting it from
Brandon Woods Residences,
when that reservoir is being built
and it's going to affect those
neighborhoods
to clear that.
What kind of effect is this pipeline
digging going to have effect on those
neighborhoods that it runs right through
or behind?
Is Is this a digging or
will there possibly be
mining going on
to build this?
To be determined. That's why we're asking
to proceed with further investigation.
Possible
timeline
for
and I know this is vague, and I don't hold
you to it. Possible timeline for the
length this will take to
put this pipeline in?
To be determined.
That's part of our further design
criteria.
So there hasn't been any surveying of that
land yet or anything? No sir. This is just
asking for approval to move forward with,
to get started with all that. Very good.
Very good. Thank you. Thank you Alderman
Warner. Alderman Fuquay. Thank you, Mayor.
Alderman Warner, I can guarantee
you being familiar with the property that
there's going to be
lot of blasting. I'm familiar with the
property. I've hiked it after we purchased
it. I went on to the property and from
that yellow line
in its entirety is all through rock. And
I'm gonna make some assumptions being
familiar with the development
that you see on the screen there.
That site is mainly rock so it's going to
be significant.
On to my question with that, with the
layout of this, I know that no structures
can be built within seventy five feet of
the furthest line
on those transmission lines. Are we going
directly on it
under?
Are we gonna go next to it? Like how close
will we be to property lines? And I know
that you can't fully answer that but I am
curious to Alderman Warner's point
going through I guess that would be it
Ruralton Woods?
Yes.
On how close we would be to essentially
backyards.
We would utilize the standard practice of
I think it's ten foot on either side of
the pipe and
for the utility right of way, but we would
back that up to the edge of TVAs.
So, basically, if this is the edge of TVA,
a house is here, our line would be over
here to where our right of way does not
cross over.
Okay, so it would
be X amount of feet off of
vertical
structures? Yes, correct. Not
outside of their
line, I guess, transmission line.
I'm not fully understanding what you're
saying. The overhead line, you know,
they're booms and then they have the
outfall. We would be under that rather
outside of that. Pretty much, yes. Okay,
cool.
Alderman Kanapari.
Thanks,
Mayor. I
think I know the answer to this, but I'm
gonna ask it anyway.
What, have we explored
the possibility
of TDOT
since we're going to bury the pipe
using some of their easement
before
they widen the
sixty five there?
I don't believe there's any TDOT
right away. It's going to be incumbent in
this project with the line for TVA.
We would. That was sixty five.
I mean, would, are we gonna buy the yellow
line? Are we gonna have to purchase that
property? We already did. That's already
the part of the reservoir property. Yes.
We will. That
Acreage? Oh. Yeah. Take it back. This is
basically just connecting the dots between
what we already own and the right of way.
Got it. Correct. I missed that.
I do wanna
reiterate something that Will said earlier
though.
We're
looking for the head nod so that we can
make applications and start this process.
It takes some time to work through it with
them.
And
if they say yes to it and allow us to go
forward, we'll still have to go through
some easement acquisition.
So if there's this big of an easement
there, and we're talking about being right
on the edge just inside of it, we would
still likely have to go back and negotiate
that easement for that portion of the
waterline even within the TVA easement
because it's likely only been negotiated
to this point as an electrical easement
and so we'd have to get the water easement
stacked on top of that. So there still
would be some outlay. That's why we wanna
start the conversation now so we're
getting all this stuff in place as we get
ready to ramp up for construction.
This just will save us a lot of time
later.
I think you got head nods tonight.
Go get after Thank
you.
Last item for the evening, discussion on
legislative
agenda, mister Napier.
Thank you, mister mayor, members of the
board.
This is staff's attempt to understand the
direction that you have as it relates to
engaging during the legislative session
that we're currently in,
pursuant to what,
we would recommend you consider for your
priorities of the the legislative efforts
of the city.
This
would be super helpful for staff to
understand
so that, number one, we can follow your
lead and carry out the dialogue to
hopefully
move forward with respect to these
important items,
but also with regard to items that you may
not see on the list that you would like to
have considered
as we attempt to
advocate and work with
both you and the legislators that
represent us in the
assembly
to hopefully do good things from a
legislative standpoint over the next
throughout the session.
And so with that, if there are any
questions or directions otherwise, we'd be
happy to entertain those.
Mister Napier, do you wanna kinda clip
through them one by one just as a
highlight of what the what the legislative
action would be?
Absolutely.
I I can do that, your honor. Thank you.
Pertaining to the
tax split with cities and towns
as it relates to the historic
rate of shared sales tax,
we are hopeful that we can advocate for
restoring that rate to the full seven
percent
versus just what's allocated currently to
the six percent.
That's what that, first bullet entails.
The second bullet, entails the idea of
giving more flexibility to the single
article tax cap that's currently in place
even if it means being consistent with
what it is the state currently enjoys,
in the same taxing dimension.
As it relates to
transfer tax receipts,
We are hopeful
that those receipts
can be shared back to counties as well as
cities and towns if possible
with regard to legislative ideas that may
come forward in that in that respect.
As it relates to construction delivery, we
are hopeful that design build can be among
the toolbox that cities and towns use,
like is the case with construction manager
at risk
and as well with respect to what the state
and IDB agencies currently enjoy with
design build.
We are hopeful that
legislation that requires
cities and towns
to participate in providing for
cost sharing for ambulance services
be opposed,
wherein currently cities and towns do not
have to incur
those types of cost sharing
requirements.
And then finally, with respect to
efforts to make local elections partisan,
we're hopeful that the board would see fit
to oppose those efforts as well.
There's a couple items that we would like
to keep an eye out for that don't appear
to be so far
being put forward in draft
bills,
and you can see those two at the bottom of
your list in your memo.
Thank you. Thank you, mister Napier. Just
tack on that a little bit. The governor
gave state of the state address this
evening while we're sitting here. I was
hoping
to find the budget. His budget gets
released with the state of the state
address. It's it's not posted online yet,
but as far as restoring the state shared
sales tax, the removal of the single
article tax cap, or a share of the
transfer tax receipts,
I think what Mr. Napier and Mr. Carter and
myself have all heard from
a variety of lobbyists
and legislatures
is those items are either likely to all
move together in tandem,
but the fiscal note on them is sufficient
enough that if it's not included in the
governor's budget,
it's essentially a non starter.
I mean, it's to the tune of around three
hundred million dollars in total.
So if the governor included it in his
budget, it's got a chance. If the governor
did not include it in his budget,
it's probably dead for this fiscal year.
But that
should be available
later this evening or tomorrow.
Around the
IDB
in design build
for municipalities,
I believe staff and myself have seen some
draft legislation.
I know it was filed on the Senate side
that would suggest it would be available
to municipalities of a certain size
for projects of a certain dollar value and
greater.
The House filing bill deadline is
tomorrow.
I've not seen a House bill number on it
yet, I don't know if you have.
Based off who the Senate sponsor is, I'd
be shocked if there's not a House bill
companion with it.
We do have a lot of local noise
from some of our county commissioners,
specifically our Williamson County
commissioners,
around expecting municipalities
to start to cost share in ambulance
services.
By state law,
counties are required to provide ambulance
coverage.
Williamson County has been here for
eight years or so, and there are two
county commissioners in particular who are
very vocal about
their opposition to that state law and
standards.
Personally, feels unlikely that
a couple of
county commissioners are gonna get a
statewide bill changed,
but I think it's something we definitely
need to watch on
and given the added complexity of being in
two counties, it's certainly gonna be
important for us as well.
But I'll think of it as we talk here.
Alderman Fuquay.
I'm sorry, I know what it is. See all I
had to do was call in.
Were
Sumner County, Murray County, Williamson
County,
a couple other counties in West Tennessee
that tried to push for
a bill
that would give counties a seat at
annexation votes,
that any annexation within the UGB after a
municipal approval would then go to a
county for approval as well.
I have not seen a Senate bill filed on
that, I have not seen a House bill filed
on that.
Last I saw, they
were pursuing potential bill sponsors and
they were kind of down to the bottom of
the barrel.
I think we'll continue to
hear noise on that locally
because Murray and Williamson County
commissioners are talking that way.
Candidates for Murray County Mayor are
talking that way.
But I have not seen a bill on it.
Alderman Fuquay.
Thank you mayor.
Haven't
read through it yet but
looking at information
for mayor Sheila Botte,
the impact fee discussion has now gone
away to a real
property transfer tax.
Yeah, that's the third bullet in the
middle. It is, okay. Missed that one.
Yeah, and that's got like one hundred and
fifty five million dollars fiscal note. So
if Governor Lee included it,
it's got a shot. If it doesn't, the fiscal
note will probably kill the bill.
Vice Mayor Linville.
Thank you mayor.
From a personal view, think all of the
things that were highlighted in the memo
are worthy of us putting some effort
behind.
I think the one that I would highlight is
the share of transfer tax receipts going
toward to counties and cities for road
funding.
This
allows me an opportunity to get in my
soapbox a little bit. But
the way that, I've said this multiple
times, the way that the state currently
funds road projects is not sustainable for
the long term to meet
the needs that Tennessee has if we're
going to be a state that continues to
grow and attract
businesses, opportunities, jobs the way it
currently is.
And so whether,
I think this is a great thing that is
being put forward. This goes
in line with what was proposed by
Williamson Inc. And Williamson County
last term.
But
whether
it's this or whether it's some other
solution,
the state,
we have to rethink what road funding looks
like at the state level in a serious way.
Because the longer that we just punt the
ball down the field, the more, the further
and further the state gets behind.
Because we
all experience the needs that we have in
Spring Hill for transportation investment.
But the
thing is that that's not unique to any
part of the state. Every part of the state
has the
same needs that we're feeling and so
there's really just a
need for us to in a
thoughtful,
meaningful way change how road funding is
happening in Tennessee.
Thank you Vice Mayor Linville. Think
depending on who you ask, at TDOT we have
somewhere between fifty eight billion and
seventy seven billion dollars worth of
roadway infrastructure needed today.
One highlight that I was able to find out
of the Governor's State of the State
address is he's gonna allocate an
additional four twenty five million
towards roadway infrastructure.
Four twenty five million is
a lot of money, certainly more money than
I have, but it doesn't make much of a dent
into fifty eight billion.
I think what direction Mr. Napier here is
looking for,
if there are particular items that we feel
we want to formally support or oppose,
we could do so by
resolution, not gonna
ask anybody to be put on the spot tonight
unless there's something you just feel
passionate about or have a soapbox about,
Vice Mayor Linville,
but I would advise you within
the next week to ten days,
if there are particular items
that
you feel strong about supporting or
opposing,
get that information to Mr. Carter or Mr.
Napier so we can work our
various sources and then we can
potentially have a resolution or seven
together for the voting session
and get these passed before we really
start working into committee hearings. Mr.
Carter, please. I think it would be best
to route those through me.
Let's do that then.
Anything else on this?
Alright,
round table discussion. Alderman Fuquay
said you had something for us.
Yes mayor thank you.
Just wanna bring up in round table with
BFAC
I brought some last minute items
and
directors to miss holding I want to share
with the this
board so we have talked and I guess Mister
Allen I probably should have reached out
to you today but I got busy my apologies.
In regards to the water and sewer project
expansions we have talked about a number
which is two hundred million dollars.
We have not formally started the process
to really hone in some actuals.
Looking at some of the documents that
we've been sharing through BFAC,
I have some concerns and Mr. Allen, we've
talked about this of what
we're gonna be spending in water and sewer
and things like going up a TVA easement
that I expect is gonna be about eight
million dollars
by some simple math that I did
on what we can do. We're moving forward
with conversations on a library.
We're moving
along with conversations about CSA and
other things. I am very afraid
of getting to a point to where water and
sewer is gonna cap us on other projects.
Without the information of what those real
costs will be,
I think that we're making some decisions
arbitrarily.
I could be complete wrong but I think
having that in front of us and then making
changes
with the market on hard numbers is a
little better than being speculative.
Mr. Allen I'd love to hear your comments
towards that and maybe a timeline that we
could start honing in on some of those
things. That way when we make good
financial decisions
moving forward with things like a library
or a skate park or anything else that's on
the
CIP list.
With that,
I've heard some
rumblings with
CSA which is essentially item number one
for water and sewer and getting that and
that we're having some difficulties
getting that funded
adequately and appropriately.
So
one of the ideas that I had and I reached
out to Mr. Carter today
is water and sewer is taking a space
that public works currently
holds and they're having to
move to CSA as the probability
of
wastewater dollars or wastewater
funding
buying the real property from public works
that way we can have this facility over
here fully constructed in its capacity
as identified in CIP. I know six months
ago when we talked it seemed
like we had the funding sources and things
ready to roll.
We're at a point to where that doesn't
today.
I wanna move forward with this.
Some of you got elected.
It was identified in your
election process that you were go getters
and it was time to go make projects
happen. We're gonna have to get creative.
So
one of my ideas, think, Mr. Carter's gonna
call the comptroller to see what the legal
capabilities of that transfer is for that
real property, if we can or cannot do it.
Mr. Napier I would love to have a
conversation
soon kind of where the hiccup was and
where we're at.
Little better communication
for the board ongoing
of where we're at with these things
because as they come to me with questions
I can't answer them and that's not a
position I like to be in.
Then last thing is
funding. We just spent three point five
million dollars on a construction team. We
have two identified projects.
One that looks like half funded the Battle
Creek that's fully funded but we need to
look in its future
for different funding mechanisms to keep
them busy.
Ms. Holden has said that she's going to
funding that way when we're done with one
thing, we have the very next thing to go
to.
But that's the update from our routing
session.
Thank you Alderman Fuquay.
If that is legal and it passes an
auditor's smell test, it is a very
creative solution.
Can I respond to that real quick just to
save us some time?
Gary, you know the answer?
Yeah.
So
a couple things, when we went through
the design process,
it's been a few months back, but Mr.
Scroggins approached me and said, hey, we
need some more room for the fleet building
and some things like that as we were
looking at the best layout of the site.
So, water and sewer actually gave up their
portion of the site so the public works
could take on more of what they needed and
accommodate it over there. So in the
current proposed plan and how things are
going forward,
water and sewer has no involvement with
that property whatsoever.
So I
don't know how you could
justify
us paying a portion of the building
construction when we have no intention of
being out there period.
What we have offered is
to assist with
some in house construction on the water
lines to serve the site as well as
we had quite a
series of conversations about trying to do
the same thing on the sewer. We have some
concerns about some of the sewer
construction, so I believe that's gonna be
subbed out to a contractor,
still be obviously watched by Mr.
Scroggins and his team as they do it. But
I had offered that the water and sewer
fund would still pay for that portion of
the construction to at least offset that
cost.
There's some things that we'll have to do
to make sure that that's done properly.
That's certainly okay, but we would have
no justification to offset the vertical
construction because we're not planning to
be part of it.
Correct, just to give you a little clarity
on
where I was going. So Public Works is
relocating over there leaving
I estimate by Google Maps, about nineteen
and a half acres for the sewer expansion.
So the transfer of sewer funds would go
for the purchase of the nineteen and a
half acres
Public Works currently utilizes? Spring
Hill Water would buy nineteen and a half
acres from Public Works.
On the site that Spring Hill Water already
owns?
Where Public Works is currently located?
On the site that Spring Hill Water already
owns? Like I said, if it's legal and
passes an audit test, it's potentially a
really creative I'll
make sure and bring my boxing gloves for
that meeting.
Being creative,
but
have a problem on our hands in looking for
a solution no matter what it takes.
I'm open to
all suggestions.
I would expect that everybody in the room
be too.
Alderman Hartwell.
Alderman Werner.
Alderman Jimenez.
Thank you, Mayor.
I'm just gonna introduce everyone to my
little pet peeve that I have. It's
regarding, well, business owners watch
this. If you have an American flag in
front of your office or your building,
please take care of it. If it's not
serviceable any longer, please pull it
down.
I get to drive to my office each and every
day,
and I see many, many flags that should
have been taken down long, long ago.
An American flag is not there to be a
decoration. An American flag represents
something.
It represents sacrifice from people who
have made sacrifice, people who will make
sacrifice, and people that do sacrifice.
To have a
representation
of that poorly taken care of doesn't mean
you don't care.
It just means you may have forgot that you
put it out there.
So do me a favor. If you're watching this,
take a chance tomorrow. Go out. Take a
look at my at your flag. I know mine's
mine's in good shape.
And ask yourself, is it discolored? Is it
torn? Is it ripped?
Is it is it hung properly?
And if the answer is no, pull it down and
replace it. If the answer is I don't know,
the Internet will tell you or make a phone
call. If you need to retire a flag, I know
there's boxes here. There's boxes at every
fire station.
I have a box.
Please just do this country a service and
your state of service and make sure that
your flags are serviceable.
And that's all I got. Thank you, Alderman
Jimenez. Alderman Canapari.
Thanks, mayor. I've got two items. First,
for mister Allen. If it's our land and
public works was there all this time, get
the back rent if this goes through.
That's one. I
mean, come on. You're the landlord.
Alright.
So
so number number two would be,
I wanna set the record straight. I said
something at the last meeting, the last
BOMA meeting in December
about
my request for public information.
I said something to the effect that I was
still waiting for some of the information.
I didn't get it all.
Well,
mister Carter
and
and miss Gode
followed up with me a couple weeks ago or
maybe last week
and pointed out the fact that, well, I
hadn't read it read it carefully.
Everything was there in the packet that I
got back. So I wanna make a public apology
to Ms. Code and Ms. Stahl
for the excellent work they did, hard work
putting that package together, which was I
forget how many emails it was, but it was
a lot.
And
And I'll do better in the future.
Thank you for saying that. Alderman
Canapari, Alderman Davis.
Thank you mayor. I just wanted to give
the city and our board an update on our
this is a little bit of a happy note of
our fourth of July celebration that's
coming up,
that the Spring Hill Chamber is taking the
charge on for us. I just wanted to say our
location's
set.
Fire, and Brent's part of this too.
Firework company set, entertainment
secured.
They did apply for the grant which was
denied, they're gonna apply again for the
grant.
Sponsorship
and donation opportunities are becoming
available. Signage is going out around
town and to HOAs, and you can also drop by
the Spring Hill Chamber if you would like
to partake in that and
help donate towards this celebration.
I know they're trying to raise funds for
it. So we're excited
to see how that is and to celebrate
together as a community
America's birthday.
Thank you Alderman Davis. Alderman Murray.
Thank you, Mayor. I just had a real quick
thank you to all of our leadership,
our staff,
all the hard workers
that
really did just a fantastic job
as we've tried to navigate through this,
I will call it an unprecedented,
because it's been more years than I can
remember since we had an ice storm like
that.
But just thank you so much for your
dedication
to
this city.
I wanna thank the citizens that reached
out to other neighbors
that lost power, maybe they didn't have
power, just a real
total effort on this city being able to
take on the storm,
do what we could,
and
try to get things remedied as quickly as
possible.
For that, I just wanna say thank you
for all of that work, and we really
appreciate what you do each and every day,
but in times like that, even thank you
more. I know thank you's probably not
enough, but thank you more
for
how you step up, time in and time out
when the city is in need. So thank you.
Thank you Alderman Murray. Vice Mayor
Linville. Thank you mayor. I just wanna
piggyback on one of Alderman Fuquay's
comments. We talked about this briefly at
BFAC as well.
But in regards to some of the sewer
discussions,
moving public works, all those sorts of
things.
I don't think it's a secret. We talked
about it for an extended period of time
today with multiple tenant improvements
that the sewer expansion
project, Project Swift is a critical path
for us as a city. And I know that we're
aligning resources towards that end,
Spartan team, all that sort of stuff.
If there's anything
that we need from a board level to help
accelerate the process and help to make
sure that we're keeping things on track.
Certainly wanna be kept apprised of that
and make sure that our staff has all the
resources that we need available to make
sure that we deliver that project as
quickly as we can for
citizens. And so I know that's
been kind of a clear direction of the
board. And again, just wanna reiterate if
there is anything else that we can do or
anything we need to be aware of.